[[search-architecture]]
== Architecture

=== Overview

Hibernate Search consists of an indexing component as well as an index search component. Both are
backed by Apache Lucene.

Each time an entity is inserted, updated or removed in/from the database, Hibernate Search keeps
track of this event (through the Hibernate event system) and schedules an index update. All these
updates are handled without you having to interact with the Apache Lucene APIs directly (see
<<search-configuration-event>>). Instead, the interaction with the underlying Lucene indexes is
handled via so called IndexManagers.

Each Lucene index is managed by one index manager which is uniquely identified by name. In most
cases there is also a one to one relationship between an indexed entity and a single IndexManager.
The exceptions are the use cases of index sharding and index sharing. The former can be applied when
the index for a single entity becomes too big and indexing operations are slowing down the
application. In this case a single entity is indexed into multiple indexes each with its own index
manager (see <<advanced-features-sharding>>). The latter, index sharing, is the ability to index
multiple entities into the same Lucene index (see <<section-sharing-indexes>>).

The index manager abstracts from the specific index configuration. In the case of the default index
manager this includes details about the selected backend, the configured reader strategy and the
chosen DirectoryProvider. These components will be discussed in greater detail later on. It is
recommended that you start with the default index manager which uses different Lucene Directory
types to manage the indexes (see <<search-configuration-directory>>). You can, however, also provide
your own IndexManager implementation (see <<configuration-indexmanager>>).

Once the index is created, you can search for entities and return lists of managed entities saving
you the tedious object to Lucene Document mapping. The same persistence context is shared between
Hibernate and Hibernate Search. As a matter of fact, the FullTextSession is built on top of the
Hibernate Session so that the application code can use the unified org.hibernate.Query or
javax.persistence.Query APIs exactly the same way a HQL, JPA-QL or native query would do.

To be more efficient Hibernate Search batches the write interactions with the Lucene index. This
batching is the responsibility of the Worker. There are currently two types of batching. Outside a
transaction, the index update operation is executed right after the actual database operation. This
is really a no batching setup. In the case of an ongoing transaction, the index update operation is
scheduled for the transaction commit phase and discarded in case of transaction rollback. The
batching scope is the transaction. There are two immediate benefits:

* Performance: Lucene indexing works better when operation are executed in batch.
* ACIDity: The work executed has the same scoping as the one executed by the database transaction and
is executed if and only if the transaction is committed. This is not ACID in the strict sense of it,
but ACID behavior is rarely useful for full text search indexes since they can be rebuilt from the
source at any time.

You can think of those two batch modes (no scope vs transactional) as the equivalent of the
(infamous) autocommit vs transactional behavior. From a performance perspective, the _in
transaction_ mode is recommended. The scoping choice is made transparently. Hibernate Search detects
the presence of a transaction and adjust the scoping (see <<configuration-worker>>).

[TIP]
====
It is recommended - for both your database and Hibernate Search - to execute your operations in a transaction, be it JDBC or JTA.
====

[NOTE]
====
Hibernate Search works perfectly fine in the Hibernate / EntityManager long conversation
pattern aka. atomic conversation.
====


=== Back end

Hibernate Search offers the ability to let the batched work being processed by different back ends.
Several back ends are provided out of the box and you have the option to plugin your own. It is
important to understand that in this context back end encompasses more than just the configuration
option `hibernate.search.default.worker.backend`. This property just specifies a implementation of
the BackendQueueProcessor interface which is a part of a back end configuration. In most cases,
however, additional configuration settings are needed to successfully configure a specific backend
setup, like for example the JMS back end.


==== Lucene

In this mode, all index update operations applied on a given node (JVM) will be executed to the
Lucene directories (through the directory providers) by the same node. This mode is typically used
in non clustered environment or in clustered environments where the directory store is shared.

image::lucene-backend.png[Lucene back end configuration]

This mode targets non clustered applications, or clustered applications where the Directory is
taking care of the locking strategy.

The main advantage is simplicity and immediate visibility of the changes in Lucene queries (a
requirement in some applications).

An alternative back end viable for non-clustered and non-shared index configurations is the near-
real-time backend.

[[search-architecture-jms]]
==== JMS

All index update operations applied on a given node are sent to a JMS queue. A unique reader will
then process the queue and update the master index. The master index is then replicated on a regular
basis to the slave copies. This is known as the master/slaves pattern. The master is the sole
responsible for updating the Lucene index. The slaves can accept read as well as write operations.
However, they only process the read operation on their local index copy and delegate the update
operations to the master.

image::jms-backend.png[JMS back end configuration]

This mode targets clustered environments where throughput is critical, and index update delays are
affordable. Reliability is ensured by the JMS provider and by having the slaves working on a local
copy of the index.


==== JGroups

The JGroups based back end works similar to the JMS one and is designed after the same master/slave
pattern. However, instead of JMS the JGroups toolkit is used as a replication mechanism. This back
end can be used as an alternative to JMS when response time is critical, but i.e. JNDI service is
not available.

Note that while JMS can usually be configured to use persistent queues, JGroups talks directly to
other nodes over network. Message delivery to other reachable nodes is guaranteed, but if no master
node is available, index operations are silently discarded. This backend can be configured to use
asynchronous messages, or to wait for each indexing operation to be completed on the remote node
before returning.

The JGroups backend can be configured with static master or slave roles, or can be setup to perform
an auto-election of the master. This mode is particularly useful to have the system automatically
pick a new master in case of failure, but during a reelection process some indexing operations might
be lost. For this reason this mode is not suited for use cases requiring strong consistency
guarantees. When configured to perform an automatic election, the master node is defined as an hash
on the index name: the role is therefore possibly different for each index or shard.

[[search-architecture-readerstrategy]]
=== Reader strategy

When executing a query, Hibernate Search interacts with the Apache Lucene indexes through a reader
strategy. Choosing a reader strategy will depend on the profile of the application (frequent
updates, read mostly, asynchronous index update etc). See also <<configuration-reader-strategy>>


==== shared

With this strategy, Hibernate Search will share the same IndexReader, for a given Lucene index,
across multiple queries and threads provided that the IndexReader is still up-to-date. If the
IndexReader is not up-to-date, a new one is opened and provided. Each IndexReader is made of several
SegmentReaders. This strategy only reopens segments that have been modified or created after last
opening and shares the already loaded segments from the previous instance. This strategy is the
default.

The name of this strategy is `shared`.

==== not-shared

Every time a query is executed, a Lucene IndexReader is opened. This strategy is not the most
efficient since opening and warming up an IndexReader can be a relatively expensive operation.

The name of this strategy is `not-shared`.


==== Custom

You can write your own reader strategy that suits your application needs by implementing
org.hibernate.search.reader.ReaderProvider. The implementation must be thread safe.

